Updated fork support SIP (#34)
bloxapp/SIPs: sips/fork_support.md

**History Sync**  
Sycing messages from a peer stays unchanged as messages have the identifier in them with domain type 

## Current State

Currently, there's **no fork change logic**. However, there's **network and fork identification** through the `DomainType`. For instance, we have
```go
type DomainType [4]byte
var (
	GenesisMainnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0}
	PrimusTestnet  = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x1, 0x0}
	ShifuTestnet   = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x2, 0x0}
	ShifuV2Testnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x2, 0x1}
	V3Testnet      = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x3, 0x1}
)
```
The _DomainType_ major importance is the fact that **it's mixed in the signature** such that messages on different domains will have different signatures.

> The node takes one of the above _DomainType_ values and **holds it until termination**.

Reviewer: I think now this sentence is confusing

Author: Do you mean the "The node takes one of the above _DomainType_ ..." sentence? Notice that it describes the previous state

Reviewer: ahh ok, my bad

<img src="./images/fork_support/domain_type_presence.png"  width="30%" height="10%">
</p>

### Use cases

- When an _Instance_ needs to verify a signature. For example
```go
signedMessage.Signature.VerifyByOperators(signedMessage, config.GetSignatureDomainType(), types.QBFTSignatureType, operators);
```

- Each _Runner_, by creating the message ID when it needs to create a message. For example
```go
msgToBroadcast := &types.SSVMessage{
		MsgType: types.SSVPartialSignatureMsgType,
		MsgID:   types.NewMsgID(r.GetShare().DomainType, r.GetShare().ValidatorPubKey, r.BaseRunner.BeaconRoleType),
		Data:    data,
	}
```

- When the _BaseRunner_ validates a partial signature. For instance
```go
func (b *BaseRunner) validatePartialSigMsgForSlot(...) {
	...
	signedMsg.GetSignature().VerifyByOperators(signedMsg, b.Share.DomainType, types.PartialSignatureType, b.Share.Committee)
	...
}
```

- Indirect usage: an _Instance_ includes its _State.ID_ in messages. The _State.ID_ is initialized as the controller's _Identifier_ which contains the _DomainType_. The controller's identifier is fixed. It's used as:
  - an argument on instance creation.
  - to broadcast decided messages.

>   - in base validation, to verify if the message was sent to the correct controller.

Reviewer: let's remove implementation details.

Author: Ok, removing

**History Sync**  
Sycing messages from a peer stays unchanged as messages have the identifier in them with domain type 

## Current State

Currently, there's **no fork change logic**. However, there's **network and fork identification** through the `DomainType`. For instance, we have
```go
type DomainType [4]byte
var (
	GenesisMainnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0}
	PrimusTestnet  = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x1, 0x0}
	ShifuTestnet   = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x2, 0x0}
	ShifuV2Testnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x2, 0x1}
	V3Testnet      = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x3, 0x1}
)
```
The _DomainType_ major importance is the fact that **it's mixed in the signature** such that messages on different domains will have different signatures.

The node takes one of the above _DomainType_ values and **holds it until termination**.

In the _DomainType_, the third byte corresponds to the **network** (Mainnet, Primus, etc.), and the fourth byte corresponds to the **fork or protocol version** for this network.

> In the actual implementation, _DomainType_ appears in the following structures:

Reviewer 2: actual "spec" not implementation

		return []*ForkData{{Epoch: 0, Domain: JatoTestnet}}
	case JatoV2NetworkID:
		return []*ForkData{{Epoch: 0, Domain: JatoV2Testnet}}
	default:
		return []*ForkData{}
	}
}

// mainnetForks returns all forks for the mainnet chain
func mainnetForks() []*ForkData {
	return []*ForkData{
		{
			Epoch:  0,
			Domain: GenesisMainnet,
		},
	}
}

func (networkID NetworkID) DefaultFork() *ForkData {
	return networkID.GetForksData()[0]
}

// GetCurrentFork returns the ForkData with highest Epoch smaller or equal to "epoch"
func (networkID NetworkID) ForkAtEpoch(epoch phase0.Epoch) (*ForkData, error) {
	// Get list of forks
	forks := networkID.GetForksData()

	// If empty, raise error
	if len(forks) == 0 {
		return nil, errors.New("Fork list by GetForksData is empty. Unknown Network")
	}

	var current_fork *ForkData
	for _, fork := range forks {
		if fork.Epoch <= epoch {
			current_fork = fork
		}
	}
	return current_fork, nil
}

func (f ForkData) GetRoot() ([]byte, error) {
	byts, err := json.Marshal(f)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, errors.Wrap(err, "could not marshal ForkData")
	}
	ret := sha256.Sum256(byts)
	return ret[:], nil
}
```

### Structures access to types

- `Share`:

>   - It's more appropriate for the structure to hold the information on the network that it's in, instead of the domain type. Thus, _Share_ will contain a `NetworkID` field instead of a `DomainType` field.

Reviewer 2: didn't we say we are reverting this change?

Reviewer: If we don't do this change implementation team will be having issue imo

Reviewer: @MatheusFranco99 
After talking to Alon we will keep DomainType in share in the SIP.

Since currently Share is held by the `Validator` it may seem problematic.

However since there are no tests for `Validator` we can either easily change it in spec code or even maybe remove it (if it isn't tested maybe no need for it).

This will allow engineering to be able to work with the SIP because they won't be constrained on where `share` is placed

  - Also, the share structure is shared between all runners, but different runners may need different DomainTypes (e.g. a runner solving a duty pre-fork and another one solving a new duty post-fork). Therefore, it would be a problem if all the runners used the Share's DomainType as its own.

Regarding the indirect usage of Identifiers:
- `Instance`:
  - Must keep its identifier to send properly formed messages.
- `Controller`:
  - Should have its _Identifier_ updated when a new fork occurs. For that, it will have a setter function. These functions will be used by the `Runner` to update the controller.
  - The _Domain_ field will drop. Since the _config_ also has a _domain_, it's duplicated.

```go

type Controller struct {
	Identifier []byte
	Height     Height
	StoredInstances InstanceContainer
	Share           *types.Share
	config          IConfig
	// No more Domain
}

func (c *Controller) SetIdentifier(identifier []byte) {
	c.Identifier = identifier
}
```

The following runner's function gets the appropriate domain type for its controller.
```go
// GetDomainTypeAtSlot returns the domain type for a given slot using the its BeaconNetwork and Share's NetworkID

> func (b *BaseRunner) GetDomainTypeAtSlot(slot phase0.Slot) (types.DomainType, error) {

Reviewer: make this a regular function and not a method please so we don't have to necessarily add it to spec

	byts, err := json.Marshal(f)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, errors.Wrap(err, "could not marshal ForkData")
	}
	ret := sha256.Sum256(byts)
	return ret[:], nil
}
```

### Structures access to types

- `Share`:
  - It's more appropriate for the structure to hold the information on the network that it's in, instead of the domain type. Thus, _Share_ will contain a `NetworkID` field instead of a `DomainType` field.
  - Also, the share structure is shared between all runners, but different runners may need different DomainTypes (e.g. a runner solving a duty pre-fork and another one solving a new duty post-fork). Therefore, it would be a problem if all the runners used the Share's DomainType as its own.

Regarding the indirect usage of Identifiers:
- `Instance`:
  - Must keep its identifier to send properly formed messages.
- `Controller`:
  - Should have its _Identifier_ and _DomainType_ updated when a new fork occurs. For that, it will have setter functions for both fields. These functions will be used by the `Runner` to update the controller.

```go

type Controller struct {
	Identifier []byte
	Height     Height
	StoredInstances InstanceContainer

> 	Domain          types.DomainType

Reviewer: Refresh my memory.
We said we can get rid of Domain here and use it just in config, no?

Author: We can. I'll update it

	Share           *types.Share
	config          IConfig
}

func (c *Controller) SetIdentifier(identifier []byte) {
	c.Identifier = identifier
}

func (c *Controller) SetDomainType(domainType types.DomainType) {
	c.Domain = domainType
}
```

> For the SSV team implementing the Fork update, we advise the following runner's function to get the appropriate domain type for its controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following runner's function gets the appropriate domain type for its controller.
```

No need to mention the SSV team when we define the protocol

	// Get list of forks
	forks := networkID.GetForksData()

	// If empty, raise error
	if len(forks) == 0 {
		return nil, errors.New("Fork list by GetForksData is empty. Unknown Network")
	}

	var current_fork *ForkData
	for _, fork := range forks {
		if fork.Epoch <= epoch {
			current_fork = fork
		}
	}
	return current_fork, nil
}

func (f ForkData) GetRoot() ([]byte, error) {
	byts, err := json.Marshal(f)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, errors.Wrap(err, "could not marshal ForkData")
	}
	ret := sha256.Sum256(byts)
	return ret[:], nil
}
```

### Structures access to types

- `Share`: It's more appropriate for the structure to hold the information on the network that it's in, instead of the domain type.
    Thus, _Share_ will contain a `NetworkID` field instead of a `DomainType` field.

Regarding the indirect usage of Identifiers:
- `Instance`:
  - Must keep its identifier to send properly formed messages.
- `Controller`:
  - Should have its _Identifier_ and _DomainType_ updated when a new fork occurs. For that, it will have setter functions for both fields. These functions will be used by the `Runner` to update the controller.

```go

> type Controller struct {

Reviewer 2: please update to current controller struct.. this seems old

Author: Indeed. Updating, thanks

)

// DomainType is a unique identifier for signatures, 2 identical pieces of data signed with different domains will result in different sigs
type DomainType [4]byte

// DomainTypes represent specific forks for specific chains, messages are signed with the domain type making 2 messages from different domains incompatible
var (
	GenesisMainnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(MainnetNetworkID), 0x0}
	PrimusTestnet  = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(PrimusNetworkID), 0x0}
	ShifuTestnet   = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(ShifuNetworkID), 0x0}
	ShifuV2Testnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(ShifuNetworkID), 0x1}
	JatoTestnet    = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(JatoNetworkID), 0x0}
	JatoV2Testnet  = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(JatoV2NetworkID), 0x1}
)

// ForkData is a simple structure holding fork information for a specific chain (and its fork)
type ForkData struct {
	// Epoch in which the fork happened
	Epoch phase0.Epoch
	// Domain for the new fork
	Domain DomainType
}

func (domainType DomainType) GetNetworkID() NetworkID {
	return NetworkID(domainType[2])
}

func (networkID NetworkID) GetForksData() []*ForkData {
	switch networkID {
	case MainnetNetworkID:
		return mainnetForks()
	default:

> 		return []*ForkData{

Reviewer: This should return a 0 length array so `ForkAtEpoch` would err

			{
				Epoch:  0,
				Domain: DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(networkID), 0x0},
			},
		}
	}
}

// mainnetForks returns all forks for the mainnet chain
func mainnetForks() []*ForkData {
	return []*ForkData{
		{
			Epoch:  0,
			Domain: GenesisMainnet,
		},
	}
}

func (networkID NetworkID) DefaultFork() *ForkData {
	return networkID.GetForksData()[0]
}

// GetCurrentFork returns the ForkData with highest Epoch smaller or equal to "epoch"
func (networkID NetworkID) ForkAtEpoch(epoch phase0.Epoch) (*ForkData, error) {
	// Get list of forks
	forks := networkID.GetForksData()

	// If empty, raise error
	if len(forks) == 0 {

> 		return nil, errors.New("GetCurrentFork: fork list by GetForksData is empty.")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		return nil, errors.New("GetCurrentFork: fork list by GetForksData is empty. Unknown Network")
```

	
	newInstance := c.addAndStoreNewInstance()
	
	newInstance.Start(value, height)

	c.forceStopAllInstanceExceptCurrent()

	return nil
}

func (c *Controller) addAndStoreNewInstance() *Instance {
	i := NewInstance(c.GetConfig(), c.Share, c.IdentifierF(), c.Height) // <-- set instance's identifier as new up to date identifier

	c.StoredInstances.addNewInstance(i)
	
	return i
}

```

An example of how the required functions for the new controller can be computed using the `BaseRunner` is shown below.

```go
type BaseRunner struct {
	State          *State
	Share          *types.Share
	QBFTController *qbft.Controller
	BeaconNetwork  types.BeaconNetwork
	BeaconRoleType types.BeaconRole
	highestDecidedSlot spec.Slot
}

func (b *BaseRunner) GetIdentifierF() func() []byte {
	return func() []byte {
		currentEpoch := b.BeaconNetwork.EstimatedCurrentEpoch()
		domainType := b.Share.NetworkID.ForkAtEpoch(currentEpoch)
		identifier := types.NewMsgID(domainType,b.Share.ValidatorPubKey[:],b.BeaconRoleType)
		return identifier[:]
	}
}

func (b *BaseRunner) GetDomainTypeF() func() types.DomainType {
	return func() types.DomainType {
		currentEpoch := b.BeaconNetwork.EstimatedCurrentEpoch()

> 		return b.Share.NetworkID.ForkAtEpoch(currentEpoch)

Reviewer: This returns DomainType?

Author: This returns a function that returns the current DomainType

Reviewer: What I meant is that 		
```
return b.Share.NetworkID.ForkAtEpoch(currentEpoch)
```

will return forkdata and an error. It won't return the domain type.

Author: Oh sorry, yeah, updating it now

    Thus, _Share_ will contain a `NetworkID` field instead of a `DomainType` field.

Regarding the indirect usage of Identifiers:
- `Instance`:
  - Must keep its identifier to send properly formed messages.
- `Controller`:
  - Should replace its _Identifier_ with an _IdentifierF_ getter function, passed by the Runner. With the function instead of the fixed value, it can compute the up-to-date identifier when needed.
  - Since the controller's `config` must also be updated, the controller should also contain a _DomainTypeF_ function, instead of its fixed _DomainType_ field.

```go

type IdentifierF func() []byte // <-- new func type
type DomainTypeF func() types.DomainType // <-- new func type

type Controller struct {
	IdentifierF IdentifierF // <-- replace Identifier []byte to Identifier getter function
	Height     Height 
	StoredInstances InstanceContainer
	FutureMsgsContainer map[types.OperatorID]Height
	DomainTypeF         DomainTypeF // <-- replace Domain types.DomainType to DomainType getter function
	Share               *types.Share
	config              IConfig
}

func (c *Controller) StartNewInstance(height Height, value []byte) error {
	// ...

> 	c.config.SetSignatureDomainType(c.DomainTypeF()) // <-- updates its config using its new DomainF

Author: Sure, sorry. Updating it now!
Indeed 😅

	}

	var current_fork *ForkData
	for _, fork := range forks {
		if fork.Epoch <= epoch {
			current_fork = fork
		}
	}
	return current_fork, nil
}

func (f ForkData) GetRoot() ([]byte, error) {
	byts, err := json.Marshal(f)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, errors.Wrap(err, "could not marshal ForkData")
	}
	ret := sha256.Sum256(byts)
	return ret[:], nil
}
```

### Structures access to types

- `Share`: It's more appropriate for the structure to hold the information on the network that it's in, instead of the domain type.
    Thus, _Share_ will contain a `NetworkID` field instead of a `DomainType` field.

Regarding the indirect usage of Identifiers:
- `Instance`:
  - Must keep its identifier to send properly formed messages.
- `Controller`:
  - Should replace its _Identifier_ with an _IdentifierF_ getter function, passed by the Runner. With the function instead of the fixed value, it can compute the up-to-date identifier when needed.
  - Since the controller's `config` must also be updated, the controller should also contain a _DomainTypeF_ function, instead of its fixed _DomainType_ field.

```go

type IdentifierF func() []byte // <-- new func type

> type DomainTypeF func() (types.DomainType,error) // <-- new func type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type DomainTypeF func() (types.DomainType, error) // <-- new func type
```

not a blocker for merging

type Controller struct {
	IdentifierF IdentifierF // <-- replace Identifier []byte to Identifier getter function
	Height     Height 
	StoredInstances InstanceContainer
	FutureMsgsContainer map[types.OperatorID]Height
	DomainTypeF         DomainTypeF // <-- replace Domain types.DomainType to DomainType getter function
	Share               *types.Share
	config              IConfig
}

func (c *Controller) StartNewInstance(height Height, value []byte) error {
	// ...

	domainType, err := c.DomainTypeF()
	if err != nil {
		return Errors.Wrap(err,"Coudld not get current DomainType.")
	}

> 	c.config.SetSignatureDomainType(domainType) // <-- updates its config using its new DomainF

Reviewer 2: config is being injected into the controller and provides data/ functions. The controller shouldn't be "setting" stuff in the config

    	
	c.Height = height
	
	newInstance := c.addAndStoreNewInstance()
	
	newInstance.Start(value, height)

	c.forceStopAllInstanceExceptCurrent()

	return nil
}

func (c *Controller) addAndStoreNewInstance() *Instance {
	i := NewInstance(c.GetConfig(), c.Share, c.IdentifierF(), c.Height) // <-- set instance's identifier as new up to date identifier

	c.StoredInstances.addNewInstance(i)
	
	return i
}

```

An example of how the required functions for the new controller can be computed using the `BaseRunner` is shown below.

```go
type BaseRunner struct {
	State          *State
	Share          *types.Share
	QBFTController *qbft.Controller
	BeaconNetwork  types.BeaconNetwork
	BeaconRoleType types.BeaconRole
	highestDecidedSlot spec.Slot
}

> func (b *BaseRunner) GetIdentifierF() func() []byte {

Reviewer 2: why does it return a func?

Reviewer: Because the identifier is a function of the current epoch

Reviewer 2: I dislike the use of functions in this case, it makes it harder to read and test. 

Why not simply have a setter function for the runner/ controller/ etc.

	return func() []byte {
		currentEpoch := b.BeaconNetwork.EstimatedCurrentEpoch()
		domainType := b.Share.NetworkID.ForkAtEpoch(currentEpoch)
		identifier := types.NewMsgID(domainType,b.Share.ValidatorPubKey[:],b.BeaconRoleType)
		return identifier[:]
	}
}

func (b *BaseRunner) GetDomainTypeF() func() (types.DomainType, error) {

> 	return func() (types.DomainType, error) {

Reviewer 2: why does it return a func?

Reviewer 2: see my comments above

  - to broadcast decided messages.
  - in base validation, to verify if the message was sent to the correct controller.

## Proposed Changes

Along with the `DomainType`, we include a `NetworkID` type and a new `ForkData` structure.

```go
// NetworkID are intended to separate different SSV networks. A network can have many forks in it.
type NetworkID byte

const (
	MainnetNetworkID = NetworkID(0x0)
	PrimusNetworkID  = NetworkID(0x1)
	ShifuNetworkID   = NetworkID(0x2)
	JatoNetworkID    = NetworkID(0x3)
)

// DomainType is a unique identifier for signatures, 2 identical pieces of data signed with different domains will result in different sigs
type DomainType [4]byte

// DomainTypes represent specific forks for specific chains, messages are signed with the domain type making 2 messages from different domains incompatible
var (
	GenesisMainnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(MainnetNetworkID), 0x0}
	PrimusTestnet  = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(PrimusNetworkID), 0x0}
	ShifuTestnet   = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(ShifuNetworkID), 0x0}
	ShifuV2Testnet = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(ShifuNetworkID), 0x1}
	JatoTestnet    = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(JatoNetworkID), 0x0}

> 	JatoV2Testnet  = DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(JatoNetworkID), 0x1}

Reviewer 3: Just for reference
The current(ongoing) [JatoV2 network](https://github.com/bloxapp/ssv/blob/beadd23010b4c8f8bc25cb07d00bd534a70403ef/networkconfig/jato-v2.go#L14) behave as different networkID `0x4`
 ```go
 spectypes.DomainType{0x0, 0x0, 0x4, 0x1}
 ```

Author: Oh okay, thanks!

)

// ForkData is a simple structure holding fork information for a specific chain (and its fork)
type ForkData struct {
	// Epoch in which the fork happened
	Epoch phase0.Epoch
	// Domain for the new fork
	Domain DomainType
}

func (domainType DomainType) GetNetworkID() NetworkID {
	return NetworkID(domainType[2])
}

func (networkID NetworkID) GetForksData() []*ForkData {
	switch networkID {
	case MainnetNetworkID:
		return mainnetForks()
	default:
		return []*ForkData{
			{
				Epoch:  0,
				Domain: DomainType{0x0, 0x0, byte(networkID), 0x0},
			},
		}
	}
}

// mainnetForks returns all forks for the mainnet chain
func mainnetForks() []*ForkData {
	return []*ForkData{
		{
			Epoch:  0,
			Domain: GenesisMainnet,
		},
	}
}

func (networkID NetworkID) DefaultFork() *ForkData {
	return networkID.GetForksData()[0]
}

// GetCurrentFork returns the ForkData with highest Epoch smaller or equal to "epoch"

> func (networkID NetworkID) GetCurrentFork(epoch phase0.Epoch) (*ForkData, error) {

Reviewer 3: If we want to use GetCurrentFork name for this method, we should not pass epoch but get current epoch from beacon network
I would suggest to rename it to smtg like `ForkAtEpoch` or `ActiveForkAtEpoch`

Author: Sure, well observed. Thanks!

	// Get list of forks
	forks := networkID.GetForksData()

	// If empty, raise error
	if len(forks) == 0 {
		return nil, errors.New("GetCurrentFork: fork list by GetForksData is empty.")
	}

> 	current_fork := forks[0]
> 	for _, fork := range forks {
> 		if fork.Epoch <= epoch && fork.Epoch > current_fork.Epoch {
> 			current_fork = fork
> 		}
> 	}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	var current_fork *ForkData
	for _, fork := range forks {
		if fork.Epoch <= epoch {
			current_fork = fork
		}
	}
```

Author: So the list of forks is guaranteed to ordered, right?

Reviewer 3: > So the list of forks is guaranteed to ordered, right?

right, we can do the same as beacon API `/eth/v1/config/fork_schedule`
```
{
    "data": [
        {
            "previous_version": "0x00001020",
            "current_version": "0x00001020",
            "epoch": "0"
        },
        {
            "previous_version": "0x00001020",
            "current_version": "0x01001020",
            "epoch": "36660"
        },
        {
            "previous_version": "0x01001020",
            "current_version": "0x02001020",
            "epoch": "112260"
        },
        {
            "previous_version": "0x02001020",
            "current_version": "0x03001020",
            "epoch": "162304"
        }
    ]
}
```

but not sure why we need the previous version

Author: Indeed, I don't see why we should use either. In case we need the previous fork of a certain epoch, we can add a function later to it. What do you think?

Reviewer 3: Sure

			},
		}
	}
}

// mainnetForks returns all forks for the mainnet chain
func mainnetForks() []*ForkData {
	return []*ForkData{
		{
			Epoch:  0,
			Domain: GenesisMainnet,
		},
	}
}

func (networkID NetworkID) DefaultFork() *ForkData {
	return networkID.GetForksData()[0]
}

// GetCurrentFork returns the ForkData with highest Epoch smaller or equal to "epoch"
func (networkID NetworkID) ForkAtEpoch(epoch phase0.Epoch) (*ForkData, error) {
	// Get list of forks
	forks := networkID.GetForksData()

	// If empty, raise error
	if len(forks) == 0 {
		return nil, errors.New("GetCurrentFork: fork list by GetForksData is empty.")
	}

	var current_fork *ForkData
	for _, fork := range forks {
		if fork.Epoch <= epoch {
			current_fork = fork
		}
	}
	return current_fork, nil
}

func (f ForkData) GetRoot() ([]byte, error) {
	byts, err := json.Marshal(f)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, errors.Wrap(err, "could not marshal ForkData")
	}
	ret := sha256.Sum256(byts)
	return ret[:], nil
}
```

### Structures access to types

- `Share`: It's more correct for the structure to hold the information on the network that it's in, instead of the network and fork number.

>     Thus, _Share_ will contain a `NetworkID` field instead of a `DomainType` field.

Reviewer 2: Is that so important? domain type contains network

Author: It's not that important.
It's a two-way relation. We can derive NetworkID from DomainType and vice-versa, so in practice Share can have either one.
I thought it would be more correct if the Share was to contain the NetworkID instead of DomainType. But I can roll back this change. What do you think?

Reviewer: I would roll back. This is because:

1. I am not sure it is a two way relation. Note that DomainType has 2 TBD bytes. Are you sure they can always be derived.
2. If it can't be derived, if you look at the diagram you made, for "duties" that don't have a qbft Controller we will have no way to derive domain types.

Author: I thought that it was a two-way relation because with the NetworkID we can get the forks (GetForksData()) and then get the domain of the current fork.

Reviewer: What about the TBD bytes?

Author: Sorry, I mean that the Fork has the whole Domain data associated with an epoch, not just the fork number. So we get the whole Domain (all 4 bytes) through the GetForksData

- `Config`: Similarly, _Config_ should have a `NetworkID` instead of `DomainType`.
- `Controller`: It may drop its `DomainType` field since it has access to `config` and `Share`.

Regarding the indirect usage of Identifiers:
- `Instance` must keep its identifier to send properly formed messages.
- `Controller` may keep its identifier, but its _StartNewInstance_ method should receive as an argument the new identifier for the instance, as well as the new _DomainType_ to update its _config_. The controller, then, updates its identifier.

```go
func (c *Controller) StartNewInstance(height Height, value []byte, identifier []byte, domainType types.DomainType) error { // <-- identifier as argument
	if err := c.GetConfig().GetValueCheckF()(value); err != nil {
		return errors.Wrap(err, "value invalid")
	}

	// can't use <= because of height == 0 case
	if height < c.Height {
		return errors.New("attempting to start an instance with a past height")
	}

	// covers height == 0 case
	if c.StoredInstances.FindInstance(height) != nil {
		return errors.New("instance already running")
	}

>     c.config.SetSignatureDomainType(domainType) // <-- updates its config's DomainType

Reviewer 2: is that a must? config is an interface provided on NewController, can't we just change it on implementation and it will propagate to controller?

Author: The controller is the first structure in the hierarchy to contain the config. Though config is passed as an argument, the runner doesn't have access to it and thus the Controller needs to be the one to update it. What do you think?

Reviewer: LGTM

It should be updated everytime a new instance starts because a fork may get activated.

    c.Identifier = identifier // <-- updates its identifier

> 	c.Height = height

Reviewer 2: align correctly

Author: Fixed

	newInstance := c.addAndStoreNewInstance()
	newInstance.Start(value, height)

	c.forceStopAllInstanceExceptCurrent()

	return nil
}
```

The above change also requires an update in the `BaseRunner`. In the `decide` function, where `StartNewInstance` is called, an updated identifier needs to be passed as an argument as well as the new DomainType. For that, the _BaseRunner_ will have a new attribute `CurrentFork`, updated every time a new duty starts.

```go
type BaseRunner struct {
	State          *State
	Share          *types.Share
	QBFTController *qbft.Controller
	BeaconNetwork  types.BeaconNetwork
	BeaconRoleType types.BeaconRole
	highestDecidedSlot spec.Slot

	// Current fork associated to Share.DomainType

> 	CurrentFork *types.ForkData  // <-- new field

Reviewer 2: We can get form from domain right? why add it?

Author: Yes, we can. Updating :)

```go
// NetworkID are intended to separate different SSV networks. A network can have many forks in it.
type NetworkID [1]byte

var (
	MainnetNetworkID = NetworkID{0x0}
	PrimusNetworkID  = NetworkID{0x1}
	ShifuNetworkID   = NetworkID{0x2}
	JatoNetworkID    = NetworkID{0x3}

> 	JatoV2NetworkID  = NetworkID{0x4}

Reviewer: I have no issues with this change.
I am just wondering why you decided to do it?  Seems like an implementation detail.

Author: It's an implementation detail indeed. I made the change due to marshaling problems.

	// If empty, raise error
	if len(forks) == 0 {

> 		return nil, errors.New("GetCurrentFork: fork list by GetForksData is empty. Unknown Network")

Reviewer 2: let's keep error format to what we use currently. "GetCurrentFork:..." is not how we write errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		return nil, errors.New("Fork list by GetForksData is empty. Unknown Network")
```
